computer algorithms account for almost
all trading activity this has made
profits or in the financial world as
computer programs utilizing
high-frequency trading are able to buy
and sell in fractions of a second this
has its own issues and it seems that
more often we are witnessing glitches in
the stock market causing massive panic
the question remains is your money safe
you came here for the truth
so let me unveil that for you today we
are going to look at the flash crash
which had taken place and the
repercussions of this let me begin with
this article out of Bloomberg NASDAQ
stocks show wild swings exchange sites
third parties so let's get into the
article very quickly here I'm going to
show you some charts afterwards
erroneous prices of NASDAQ stocks
including some of the world's biggest
technology companies flooded trader
screens after the US market shut
hurly Monday before a holiday now it's
basically saying that it was part of a
test of its pricing data and then it
showed some incorrect pricing of these
particular stocks so while this was a
test apparently this caused panic this
came up on the traders Bloomberg screen
then you ever worked on this at all this
is what a Bloomberg screen would look
like a portion of it anyway look at this
market wide circuit breaker Hulk level -
it's coming up right here think about
this these are coming up on trader
screens all around the world they are
seeing this information then the panic
goes and people start freaking out
wondering what the heck is going on now
obviously the market was closed
it was rectified and ultimately things
went back to quote-unquote normal but
it still remains to be seen
why there aren't more protections in
place this right here Apple's stock look
at the price it's not missing a decimal
place here we're not making a mistake it
was downtown 123 look at it WTF is right
they were priced at 123 for the period
of time and you can just see the flash
crash which took place and doesn't
matter if the market was closed if it
was open it doesn't matter the reason I
point this out let me before I get into
let me just show you quickly okay then
you have this right here Amazon similar
situation taking an absolute beating in
this flash crash again
then you have Zynga which went up over
3,000 percent this is the point I'm
trying to make well this is just one
example a lot of people will pigeonhole
this say this is just you know something
it was a glitch rectified there's
nothing to worry about the stocks are
back to normal everything's great you
might be right but there is fragility in
this market and that is experienced
every single day there are glitches
which occur which leave people out of
their investments temporarily there are
issues with ATMs people aren't able to
get their money out issues with the
online portion of banking people can't
get their money L can't do their bill
payments can't do all that you try to
call in for the telephone banking that's
not working because of some glitch here
there you have
individuals who are having issues one
way or another the banks having an issue
the third parties are having an issue
people doesn't matter somewhere along
the line there are issues and that
leaves you from being able to do what
you want to do you get my point whether
it's some sort of technical glitch on on
your side or their side it doesn't
matter the point I'm trying to make is
that you're trying to just go about your
daily life you're trying to work your
9:00 to 5:00 and then you have an issue
which is preventing you from doing a
basic task like paying a bill and that
is the problem I see because we have put
so much faith so much trust in these
institutions and as a result we get
screwed over this happens look at
Northern Rock
what happened ultimately in the end the
central bank bailed them out then you
have the or I should say the central
bank was there to be lender of last
resort just like the US government did
with Fannie Mae Freddie Mac putting that
on its books everything else that we've
seen but we've been told that the
financial establishments are in fact
safe because they have the Full Faith
and Credit of the government have no
fear everything is just fine but as far
as I'm concerned if I was one of these
people in this line of northern rock
while it was basically under this bank
run I'd be pretty pissed off because
I've been told my money is safe I've
been told it's insured I've been told
all these lies and then we see the truth
it takes a crisis for that to come to
light but it's a fact Northern Rock is
one example but maybe the depositor
didn't lose any money but in between the
time that they law
the bank down and you have to line up
for hours or days or what-have-you and
then in that moment in between there and
you actually getting all of your money
what if you needed to use that money
what if you had bills or procedures that
need to be taking place you were locked
out did you get a hundred percent of
attack all 100% did you have to take a
day off of work are you allowed to take
a day off work some people aren't just
making point here it's not you know
people really they whitewash it they say
whatever people were able to get their
money out of here you're fear-mongering
you're an idiot you're stupid
well say what you want that's fine like
I can take it this isn't okay
it's not okay to have a bank run even if
you get your money back it so it's not
it's simply not okay I don't care what
you say then we have the issue with
Greece what about when you know the bank
was doing okay let's say maybe had a
little issue in Greece but the ATMs were
only allowing a small amount of money
out every day so that's your money it's
there in the bank it's yours you're
going to get it well you're going to
have to line up in that ATM every single
day for the next five years to get all
of your money out if you decide to do
that well then we have a big issue
that's what people don't realize let's
make some sense of the situation the
bank's own and control your money you
put it in the bank it is theirs not
yours if you own a stock you think you
really own that stock they'll take that
money away in a heartbeat in a snap
don't ever think you're money sitting on
an exchange somewhere is your money
you're lucky to get it back you're
really lucky we
mean all sorts of glitches leaving
people at least at least temporarily out
of their money don't be a fool the same
thing goes for Bitcoin if your money is
on an exchange it's not yours
we've seen what happened with the
exchanges it's screwed over a lot of
people there's hacking that goes on
there's all kinds of things so do not
leave money on exchanges it's so risky
if you invest your stocks with the
company or invest money into stocks for
a particular company you have to
understand that that is a risk you're
taking everything of course is a risk
there's no doubt about that but we take
extra risk in certain times and right
now it looks to me like there is such a
high level of risk and a lot of people
are taking this too lightly so I hope
you get my point I'm trying to make here
that's all for this video if you found
it informative please give me a thumbs
up and last but not least if you found
this video informative I know you'll
find my books the money GPS and my new
release global economic collapse even
more informative so look through the
books you can do so at Amazon the first
book is about the four asset classes and
how to profit from them whereas in the
new book I connect into the old issues
but I also get into things like becoming
self-sufficient reducing your monthly
expenses and other things so take a look
through at Amazon they have that look
inside feature and that's all for this
video
take care